May web platform post. (#10113)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/web-platform-05-2023/index.md

---
layout: post
title: "New to the web platform in May"
subhead: >
  Discover some of the interesting features that landed in stable and beta web browsers during May 2023.
description: >
  Discover some of the interesting features that landed in stable and beta web browsers during May 2023.
date: 2023-05-31
hero: image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/ozivqeizYMb6e6KTwiob.jpg
alt: A selection of colored pencils.
authors:
  - rachelandrew
tags:
  - blog
  - new-to-the-web
---

## Stable browser releases

In May 2023, [Firefox 113](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Firefox/Releases/113), [Chrome 113](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-113/), [Chrome 114](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-114/), and [Safari 16.5](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safari-release-notes/safari-16_5-release-notes) became stable. Let's take a look at what this means for the web platform.

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> We include browser compatibility data pulled from MDN in these posts which may not have updated for very recent browser releases. The post will show the correct information as soon as it appears in the [browser-compat-data release](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We include browser compatibility data pulled from MDN in these posts which may not have been updated yet for very recent browser releases. The post will show the correct information as soon as it appears in the [browser-compat-data release](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/releases).
```

{% endAside %}

### WebGPU

> Chrome 113 includes [WebGPU](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/webgpu-release/), the successor to the WebGL and WebGL 2 graphics APIs for the Web. It provides modern features such as GPU compute, lower overhead access to GPU hardware, the ability to render to multiple canvases from a single graphics device, and better, more predictable performance.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome 113 includes [WebGPU](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/webgpu-release/), the successor to the WebGL and WebGL 2 graphics APIs for the web. It provides modern features such as GPU compute, lower overhead access to GPU hardware, the ability to render to multiple canvases from a single graphics device, and better, more predictable performance.

```

{% BrowserCompat 'api.GPU' %}

### First-Party Sets

> [First Party Sets](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/first-party-sets/) is part of the [Privacy Sandbox](https://privacysandbox.com/). It is a way for organizations to declare relationships among sites, so that browsers allow limited third-party cookie access for specific purposes. This began a staged rollout in Chrome 113. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[First-Party Sets (FPS)](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/first-party-sets/) is part of the [Privacy Sandbox](https://privacysandbox.com/). It is a way for organizations to declare relationships among sites, so that browsers can decide when to allow limited third-party cookie access for sites within a set. FPS began a staged rollout in Chrome 113. 
```

{% BrowserCompat 'css.types.easing-function.linear-function' %}

### CSS Color Level 4 features

Firefox 113 includes the `color()`, `lab()`, `lch()`, `oklab()`, `oklch()`, and `color-mix()` functional notations, along with the forced-color-adjust property. This means that the new color spaces and functions are now supported across all three major engines. You can learn more about these color spaces and functions in the [High definition CSS color guide](/articles/high-definition-css-color-guide/).

{% BrowserCompat 'css.types.color.color-mix' %}

### More control over `:nth-child()` selections

Firefox 113 also adds the ability to pass a selector list into `:nth-child()` and `nth-last-child()`. Learn more about this, and see examples in the post [More control over :nth-child() selections with the of S syntax](https://developer.chrome.com/articles/css-nth-child-of-s/).

{% BrowserCompat 'css.selectors.nth-child.of_syntax' %}

### Compressions Streams API

> Now supported in all three major engines due to inclusion in Firefox 113, the Compressions Streams API enables the compression and decompression of streams. THis means that JavaScript applications no longer need to bundle a compression library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now supported in all three major engines due to inclusion in Firefox 113, the Compressions Streams API enables the compression and decompression of streams. This means that JavaScript applications no longer need to bundle a compression library.
```
